+++
title = "Streaming Algorithms for Language Recognition Problems"
date = "2011-04-05"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Ajesh Babu", "Nutan Limaye",  "Jaikumar Radhakrishnan", "Girish Varma"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "* Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 494, 8 July 2013, Pages 13-23.*."
publication_short = "*TCS*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["streaming"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf =  "http://geevi.github.io/research/"
url_preprint = "http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0848"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
url_slides = "https://www.dropbox.com/s/j7p2enoptwzky25/slides.pdf?dl=0"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
#math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
#highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
We study the complexity of the following problems in the streaming model. Membership testing for DLIN We show that every language in DLIN can be recognised by a randomized one-pass O(logn) space algorithm with inverse polynomial one-sided error, and by a deterministic p-pass O(n/p) space algorithm. We show that these algorithms are optimal.Membership testing for LL(k). For languages generated by LL(k) grammars with a bound of r on the number of nonterminals at any stage in the left-most derivation, we show that membership can be tested by a randomized one-pass O(rlogn) space algorithm with inverse polynomial (in n) one-sided error. Membership testing for DCFL We show that randomized algorithms as efficient as the ones described above for DLIN and $LL(k)$ (which are subclasses of DCFL) cannot exist for all of DCFL: there is a language in VPL (a subclass of DCFL) for which any randomized p-pass algorithm with error bounded by ϵ<1/2 must use Ω(n/p) space.Degree sequence problem We study the problem of determining, given a sequence d1,d2,...,dn and a graph G, whether the degree sequence of G is precisely d1,d2,...,dn. We give a randomized one-pass O(logn) space algorithm with inverse polynomial one-sided error probability. We show that our algorithms are optimal.Our randomized algorithms are based on the recent work of Magniez et al. cite{MMN09}; our lower bounds are obtained by considering related communication complexity problems. 
